# What Rich Litvin’s up to

What Rich Litvin’s up to:

## High-Achieving Introverts: Unleash the Power of Your Quiet Top Performers

UP TO FIFTY PERCENT of the people we know are introverts. My current research and coaching focus on introverts who are already high achievers or who aspire to be. Women who are first time CEOs. Women who are successful entrepreneurs balancing their business with raising a family. Entrepreneurs and employees in Fortune 500 tech and media companies. Bloggers, writers, social media and traditional media experts who thrive working alone.

High-achieving introverts regularly accomplish goals that feel easy to them but which astound their peers. They aren’t interested in following the crowd and don’t like small talk. They understand the power of being alone, are deeply reflective and are willing to take risks-but only to make a big impact in the world. They perform at high levels with little guidance or support. Yet they can feel like a fraud because their career is thriving whilst their relationships suffer. They can make a great deal of money but not have enough time with their family. They can be well known in their area of expertise but drained by the challenges of living a high-energy life. They may feel like they are hiding a secret that no one around them can understand because they are frustrated by the sense that there is so much more possible for them.

These quiet top performers are leading, achieving or creating an impact in the world not despite their introversion but because of it. When entrepreneurs, CEOs and organizations harness the full power of their introverted high achievers the results can be exponential. Greater autonomy, mastery and purpose. Increased resilience, creativity and natural motivation. And ultimately a big impact on the personal and corporate bottom line.

An introverted high achiever myself and founder of the Confident Woman’s Salon, I have coached and interviewed some of the world’s highest achievers-Olympic athletes, millionaires, soldiers, CEOs and celebrities. Powerful, passionate and prosperous individuals with a track record of success. One of the greatest challenges facing high achievers is that they perform at a level which is so high that most people cannot even see how much they are holding back. And top performers have few people in their world willing to say what they most need to hear. Yet tiny changes can account for radical differences in achievement and they have the highest impact for people already achieving and creating close to or at world-class levels. In this rarified atmosphere, the very qualities that have led to their current success are also precisely what hold them back from even greater levels of accomplishment.

Super successful introverts often dream so big that they get overwhelmed. Despite the admiration of those around them, it often doesn’t feel like they’ve ever had to work that hard for everything they’ve accomplished. And as they play a bigger and bigger game, deeper competing beliefs begin to rise that create an upper limit to their success. High achievers also get comfortable in the “gray zone” - a working pace that appears impressive but actually leads to a decline in performance. The danger for a high performer is that their “gray zone” creates so much more than the average person that there is a temptation to continually underperform without even realizing that they are doing so.

Quiet top performers are also extremely talented problem-solvers with a finely-tuned ability to scan the horizon for “danger”. They are energized by challenges and threats, so they tend to avoid things-taxes, relationships, income, etc.-until they reach problem-level status. And they seek perfection, so the barrier to start each subsequent project becomes unbearably high because each time it is re-set, based upon the rewards of their previous project.

If you are a Quiet Top Performer who is ready to make a bigger impact and get to your next level, an organization interested in harnessing the full power of your introverted high achievers, or you are simply interested in learning more about my work, please contact me directly: rich@richlitvin.com.

